OSSMDOC-210: Upgrading service mesh from 2.0 to 2.1 (#38184)
openshift/openshift-docs: service_mesh/v2x/upgrading-ossm-to-2-1.adoc

[id="ossm-upgrade-to-2-1"]
= Upgrading {ProductName} from version 2.0 to version 2.1
include::modules/ossm-document-attributes.adoc[]
:context: oossm-upgrading-to-2-1

toc::[]

Upgrading from version 2.0 to 2.1 requires manual steps that migrate your workloads and application to a new instance of {ProductName} running the new version.

.Prerequisites

* You are running {product-title} 4.6 or later.
* You have the {ProductName} version 2.1.0 operator. If the *automatic* upgrade path is enabled, the operator automatically downloads the latest information. However, there are steps you must take to use the features in {ProductName} version 2.1.
* You must upgrade from {ProductName} 2.0 to 2.1. You cannot upgrade SMCP 1.1 to 2.1 directly.

[id="ossm-upgrading-upgrade-2-1_{context}"]
== Upgrading to {ProductName} 2.1

> To upgrade {ProductName}, you must update the version field of the {ProductName} `ServiceMeshControlPlane` v2 resource in a new namespace. Then, once it's configured and applied, restart the application pods to update each sidecar proxy and its configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upgrade {ProductName}, you must update the version field of the {ProductName} `ServiceMeshControlPlane` v2 resource. Then, once it's configured and applied, restart the application pods to update each sidecar proxy and its configuration.
```

Author: I made this edit.

.Procedure

. Check your v2 `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource configuration to make sure it is valid.
+
.. Run the following command to view your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource as a v2 resource.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get smcp -o yaml
----
+
. Back up your control plane configuration. Switch to the project that contains your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource.  In this example, `istio-system` is the name of the control plane project.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc project istio-system
----
+

> .. Check the `spec.techPreview.errored.message` field in the output for information about any invalid fields.

Reviewer: I think this should be deleted.

[id="ossm-upgrade-to-2-1"]
= Upgrading {ProductName} from version 2.0 to version 2.1
include::modules/ossm-document-attributes.adoc[]
:context: oossm-upgrading-to-2-1

toc::[]

Upgrading from version 2.0 to 2.1 requires manual steps that migrate your workloads and application to a new instance of {ProductName} running the new version.

.Prerequisites

> * You must upgrade to {product-title} 4.7. before you upgrade to {ProductName} 2.0.

Reviewer 2: Not a strict requirement, generally we describe prerequisites in the present tense. Should line 12 end with "2.1"? Depending on the actual meaning, here are some suggestions.
```suggestion
* You are running {product-title} 4.7.
```
```suggestion
* You upgraded to {product-title} 4.7. before upgrading to {ProductName} 2.0.
```

Author: Made this edit

Author: Dev team tweaked.

> * You must upgrade to {product-title} 4.7. before you upgrade to {ProductName} 2.0.

Author: Changed bullet to "You must be running OCP 4.6 or later."

> * You must upgrade to {product-title} 4.7. before you upgrade to {ProductName} 2.0.

Author: Changed to You must be running OCP 4.6 or later.

> * You must have {ProductName} version 2.1.0 operator. If you selected the *automatic* upgrade path, the operator automatically downloads the latest information. However, there are steps you must take to use the features in {ProductName} version 2.1.

Reviewer 2: I'm confused about what to do here. The "However, there are steps you must take to use the features in {ProductName} version 2.1" sentence seems to repeat the introduction.
```suggestion
* You have the {ProductName} version 2.1.0 operator. If you selected the *automatic* upgrade path, the operator automatically downloads the latest information. Otherwise [get it from somewhere]. 
```

> * You must upgrade from {ProductName} 2.0 to 2.1. You cannot upgrade SMCP 1.1 to 2.1 directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You are running {ProductName} 2.0. You cannot upgrade from SMCP version 1.1 directly to 2.1.
```

> [id="ossm-upgrading-upgrade-2-1_{context}"]

Reviewer 2: You could turn this into a module...

== Upgrading to {ProductName} 2.1

> To upgrade {ProductName}, you must create an instance of {ProductName} `ServiceMeshControlPlane` v2 resource in a new namespace. Then, once it's configured, move your microservice applications and workloads from your old mesh to the new service mesh.

Author: Made this edit

.Procedure

. Check your v2 `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource configuration to make sure it is valid.
+
.. Run the following command to view your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource as a v2 resource.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get smcp -o yaml
----
+
.. Check the `spec.techPreview.errored.message` field in the output for information about any invalid fields.
+

> . Back up your control plane configuration. Switch to the project that contains your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource.  In this example, `istio-system` is the name of the control plane project.

Reviewer 2: Is "Back up your control plane configuration" a separate step from "Switch to the project"?

Reviewer 2: If so, 
```suggestion
. Back up your control plane configuration. 

. Switch to the control plane project that contains your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource. For example, if `istio-system` is the name of project, enter:
```

Author: Changed with dev team

> . Back up your control plane configuration. Switch to the project that contains your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource.  In this example, `istio-system` is the name of the control plane project.

Author: I moved these steps around. @longmuir we should make sure to review this in today's meeting.

> . Back up your control plane configuration. Switch to the project that contains your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource.  In this example, `istio-system` is the name of the control plane project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Switch to the project that contains your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource.  In this example, `istio-system` is the name of the control plane project.  Back up your control plane configuration.
```

> . Back up your control plane configuration. Switch to the project that contains your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource.  In this example, `istio-system` is the name of the control plane project.

Author: Revised during dev team review meeting

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc project istio-system

Reviewer 2: Or you can drop the "example" phrase above and do something like this: 
```suggestion
$ oc project <project-name>
```

Reviewer: This should be before `oc get smcp -o yaml`.

Author: Made the changes during dev team review meeting

----
+

> . Update the `.spec.version` field from v2.0 to v2.1.

Author: Edit made

+

> If you see the following message, then you need to change the existing "Mixer" type to “Istiod” type in the existing Control Plane spec before you update the  `.spec.version` field:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you see the following message, change the "Mixer" type to “Istiod” type in the existing Control Plane spec before you update the  `.spec.version` field:
```

Author: @rolfedh let's touch base on this when we meet

+

> An error occurred

Author: Made this update and tagged so it appears shaded per established doc norm

> An error occurred
> admission webhook `smcp.validation.maistra.io` denied the request: [support for `policy.type` "Mixer" and `policy.Mixer` options have been removed in v2.1, please use another alternative, support for `telemetry.type` "Mixer" and `telemetry.Mixer` options have been removed in v2.1, please use another alternative]”

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
----
An error occurred
admission webhook `smcp.validation.maistra.io` denied the request: [support for `policy.type` "Mixer" and `policy.Mixer` options have been removed in v2.1, please use another alternative, support for `telemetry.type` "Mixer" and `telemetry.Mixer` options have been removed in v2.1, please use another alternative]”
----
```

Author: I don't see a difference here.

+

> For example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example:
```

Author: Done

+
[source,terminal]
----
spec:
  policy:
    type: Istoid
  telemetry:
    type: Istiod
  version: v2.1
----
+

> Alternatively, you can use the console to create the control plane. In the {product-title} web console, click *Project*. Then, select the project name you just entered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, instead of using the command line, you can use the {product-title} web console to create the control plane. In the console, click *Project* and select the project name you just entered.
```

Reviewer 2: Lines 60 through 65 should be a separate procedure. 
Line 67 should become a final numbered step, or have its own `.Verification` section.

> Alternatively, you can use the console to create the control plane. In the {product-title} web console, click *Project*. Then, select the project name you just entered.

Author: Made this edit.

+
.. Click *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.

> .. Click *Create ServiceMeshControlPlane*.

Author: Changed to "Find the ServiceMeshControlPlane instance."

.. Select *YAML view* and update text of the YAML file, as shown in the previous example.
.. Click *Save*.
+

> Wait until the reconciliation completes and check your `ServiceMeshMemberRoll`` Status Condition: Ready.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Wait until the reconciliation completes. Then, check that your `ServiceMeshMemberRoll` shows `Status Condition: Ready`.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm guessing. You should check this against the actual UI.

> [id="ossm-upgrading-differences-2-1_{context}"]

Reviewer 2: You could turn this into a module.

Reviewer 2: Is this a conceptual or procedural module. It isn't clear.

> == Configuring the 2.1 ServiceMeshControlPlane

Author: Deleted

> The `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource has been changed for {ProductName} version 2.1. After you created a v2 version of the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource, modify it to take advantage of the new features and to fit your deployment. Consider the following changes to the specification and behavior of {ProductName} 2.1 as you're modifying your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource. You can also refer to the {ProductName} 2.1 product documentation for new information to features you use. The v2 resource must be used for {ProductName} 2.1 installations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource has changed in {ProductName} version 2.1. You can modify the 
`ServiceMeshControlPlane` v2 resource to take advantage of new features and fit your deployment. 

As you modify your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource, consider the following changes to the specification and behavior of {ProductName} 2.1. You can also refer to the {ProductName} 2.1 product documentation for new information about features you use. The v2 resource must be used for {ProductName} 2.1 installations.
```

Author: Made this edit

Author: Done

[id="ossm-upgrading-differences-arch_{context}"]
=== Architecture changes

> Although Mixer is no longer supported as a control plane component, Mixer policy and telemetry plugins are now supported through WASM extensions in Istiod.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although Mixer is no longer supported as a control plane component, Mixer policy and telemetry plugins are now supported through WebAssembly (“WASM”) extensions in Istiod.
```

Author: Dev team tweaked this. Edit no longer applies.

> Although Mixer is no longer supported as a control plane component, Mixer policy and telemetry plugins are now supported through WASM extensions in Istiod.

Author: Updated to use the language from the rel notes.

[id="ossm-upgrading-differences-behavior_{context}"]
=== Behavioral changes

> * AuthorizationPolicy updates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `AuthorizationPolicy` updates
```

Author: Done

> ** If using PROXY protocol, updates are required if using ipBlocks/notIpBlocks, as the remote IPs are now specified using remoteIpBlocks/notRemoteIpBlocks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** With the PROXY protocol, updates are required to use `ipBlocks` and `notIpBlocks`, because the remote IPs are now specified using `remoteIpBlocks` and `notRemoteIpBlocks`.
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe
```suggestion
** With the PROXY protocol, if you're using `ipBlocks` and `notIpBlocks` to specify remote IP addresses, update the configuration to use `remoteIpBlocks` and `notRemoteIpBlocks` instead.
```

Author: Done

> ** Added support for nested JWT claims

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Added support for nested JSON Web Token (JWT) claims
```

Author: made this edit

> * EnvoyFilter breaking changes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `EnvoyFilter` breaking changes
```

Author: Made this edit

> * EnvoyFilter breaking changes

Author: Added note to the topic.

> ** Must use typed_config

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Must use `typed_config`
```

Author: made this edit

> ** xDS v2 no longer supported

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** xDS v2 is no longer supported.
```

Author: Done

** Deprecated filter names
* Older versions of proxies may report 503 status codes when receiving 1xx or 204 status codes from newer proxies

> 

Reviewer 2: End sentences in lists with periods. Maybe flesh out phrases like "Must use `typed_config`." to "<something> must use ..."

Author: Done

[id="ossm-upgrading-mig-apps_{context}"]
== Next steps for migrating your applications and workflows

> Move the application workload to the new mesh and remove the old instances to complete your upgrade.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Move the application workload to the new mesh and remove the old instances to complete your upgrade.
```

Author: Team tweaked the workflow. No action as this no longer applies.

> Move the application workload to the new mesh and remove the old instances to complete your upgrade.

Author: Made this change.
